CONTACT
Kyle Chatman
cs.kchatman.com
kchatman@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/kchatman
github.com/etoitau
415-601-4080
Oakland, CA


INTRODUCTION
Kyle Chatman is an entry-level software engineer with 12 years  professional experience in engineering projects. He's adaptable, versatile, resourceful, efficient, and looking for problems to solve. 
Past teammates say he "impressed with thoughtful practical solutions," is "efficient in communication," "responsive," "cooperative," "collaborative", "creative in problem solving," "well organized," and "a pleasure to work with," with a "calm and consistent style" (see LinkedIn)


EDUCATION
Self-Directed Courses:
* Design Patterns in Java (Udemy)
* The Complete Android Oreo Developer Course (Udemy)
* Data Structures (UCSD - Coursera)
* Algorithms (UCSD - Coursera)
* Programming with Java II (University of Helsinki - mooc.fi)
* CodeGym Level 11
* CS50W - Web Programming with Python and JavaScript   (Harvard - edX)
* CS50 - Introduction to Computer Science (Harvard - edX)
College:
* Master of Science in Structural Engineering and Geomechanics - Stanford University
* Bachelor of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering - University of California, Berkeley


EXPERIENCE
Learning Projects:
See cs.kchatman.com for details, including projects with source code, video demos, and live apps. Below are some examples.
* Pixel Dungeon Echo - Mod of a popular open source roguelike dungeon crawler. Live on Google Play. Learning Game development, Android, Java, working with a legacy codebase.
* Collatzy - Live web app for exploring sequences like that of the Collatz Conjecture. Learning Java, Spring Boot, JUnit testing, Thymeleaf, PostgreSQL, web development. 
* GifTessera - Android app for creating simple animations and animated gifs. Live on Google Play. Learning Kotlin and Android.
* Racetrack - Downloadable (jar) implementation of the classic pencil and paper game with an AI solver. Learning Java, Swing.
* Dragon Curve Maker - Live web app for exploring this class of fractals. Learning Python, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL. D3 visualization, Django, web development.
* The RPSer - Live web app that tries to learn to beat you at rock, paper, scissors. Learning Python, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, Django, web development.


KEYWORD DUMP - SOFTWARE
Java, Python, Kotlin, JavaScript, C, HTML, CSS, SCSS, Git, Intillij, Android Studio, Android, Spring Boot, Thymeleaf, Java Persistence API (JPA), JUnit, Swing, Hibernate, REpresentational State Transfer (REST), Django, Flask, Jinja2, SQL, SQLite, PosgreSQL, Web, algorithms, data structures, Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Object Relational mapping (ORM)


KEYWORD DUMP - STRUCTURES
seismic evaluation, retrofit, renovation, strengthening, new construction, multi-family, public, hospital, high-rise, religious, remodel,  residential, historic, commercial, steel,      concrete, wood,  micropiles, precast, PT concrete, FRP, URM, light-gauge, nonlinear analysis, code development,  Revit, SAP 2000, ETABS, Bluebeam, RISA 3D, RAM Concept, ASCE 41


LICENSE - CA
Structural Engineer (SE) 5917
Civil Engineer
(PE) 74833


PREVIOUS CAREER
In his past career, Kyle had about twelve years experience analyzing, designing and managing the design of structural systems for buildings. That experience will be useful in any work centered on engineering projects. Strong communication skills were required to coordinate with team members in a wide variety of fields (architects, engineers, contractors, etc.). He reliably brought major projects to successful conclusion as leader of a team, team member, or solo. He showed himself to be an efficient and effective designer of solutions for problems large and small and routinely managed several projects simultaneously.


JOB HISTORY
OLMM Consulting Engineers - Nov 2012 to Feb 2019
Sample Projects:

Paseo and Vista Estero - Brooklyn Basin, Oakland
New six story building over 300k sqft with 211 affordable housing units. 
Leader of structural team over several engineers and building information modeling (BIM) technicians.

The Mexican Museum and Four Seasons Private Residences - SF 
New 45 story high rise added to existing 116-year-old ten story office building. Museum in bottom four stories, luxury condos above.  
Leader of OLMM structural team, partnered with MKA team.

Westbrook Apartments - Hunter's Point, SF        
Existing site with 37 apartment buildings totalling over 250k sqft, with 226 units of affordable housing. Evaluation and renovation.
Sole structural engineer for the project.

Natalie Gubb Commons - SF
Three new buildings with 120 units of affordable housing.
Leader of structural team finishing design and through construction.

Solaire Apartments / Beale Street Affordable Housing - SF
32 story tower, 8-story mid-rise, seven 3-story townhomes. 402 market-rate and 70 affordable housing apartments with parking below.
Leader of OLMM structural team, partnered with MKA team. 


Degenkolb Engineers - Aug 2007 to Sep 2012
Sample Projects:

Ogden Utah Temple and Tabernacle  - Ogden, Utah
Major remodel and seismic strengthening of significant LDS temple and neighboring tabernacle. 115k sqft. 
Leader of Degenkolb team and provided oversight of partner local firm.

VA Palo Alto Polytrauma and Blind Rehabilitation Center - Palo Alto
Three story hospital building, 174k sqft, new design with blast hardening
Lead design engineer.